because multiple fires have been seen on
lebanon's border with Israel the United
Nations interim force in Lebanon says
that they are burning near
minefields and that they're caused by
fighting between the Israeli Army and
the Lebanese armed group Hezbollah un
firefighters are at the scene Israel's
military says at least seven soldiers
have been killed aljaz Zena hoder is in
southern Lebanon monitoring this Suzana
are these fires started deliberately as
part of the fighting or are they
collateral damage of what's going on
around this border
area well Israeli strikes are being
blamed for the wildfires that have been
raging along several kilometers of the
border with Israel according to the
United Nations peacekeeping Force the
fires are now under control but we've
seen this in the past this is not the
first conflict or first war if you like
between the Israeli Army and Hezbollah
in previous rounds the Israeli military
they tar Target bushes trees uh uh cause
fires so that Hezbollah has no place to
hide so that their Fighters cannot
approach the border so that they cannot
launch attacks from those areas or
launch any possible incursions into
Northern Israel so this is definitely a
tactic because what both sides have been
trying to do is blind each other um
about a few days ago Hezbollah said that
it has been destroying surveillance
cameras along the border on Israeli
military position position so that they
cannot see so the Israelis cannot see
their movements along the border and
that's why we've seen Israel use drones
drones are in Disguise 24 hours a day
and really that has made it quite
difficult for Hezbollah to operate it
has suffered quite a number of
casualties nearly 50 in the past 3 weeks
because they are operating in open
territory and because drones
surveillance drones are in this sky but
in the past 24 hours we haven't seen any
hezb attack at least no claim of
response responsibility which could be
an indication that the group is
reassessing and seeing why they are
taking these casualties and may come up
with a new
strategy Zena the big question for
hisbah is and and that has been the big
question uh since pretty much October
the 7th is whether they decide to join a
fullscale war against Israel now they've
been keeping their cards close to their
chest when it comes to that question but
do we know anything more about
hezbollah's
intentions
well they say that they are ready for
any possibility and that they are in the
heart of the battle but they also say we
will not reveal what our next step will
be but it will be depend on the events
or the developments on the ground in
Gaza a top ranking Hezbollah official
has made it clear for us Gaza will not
fall now the question is when and for
how long can Hamas sustain attacks
against the Israeli Army maybe then
Hezbollah will decide you know take its
strategic considerations uh into
considerations its strategy because at
the end of the day launching a
full-blown military conflict with the
Israeli army yes it is a much stronger
Force than it was in 2006 according to
the Hezbollah Secretary General Hassan
nah he boasts of a force of 100,000
Fighters he also says that he has
position guided missiles that can hit
anywhere in Israel but Israel too is an
advanced Army it has air superiority and
it can target areas where Hezbollah
supporters live putting pressure on the
armed group we saw that happen in 2006
and also this is a country where you
know people are suffering because of an
economic crisis many of these people
have nowhere to go and even to rent
homes so the situation is a very
difficult decision for Hezbollah but it
has said Gaza will not fall Z thank you
very much for your reporting and for all
that context that's aljaz Zod reporting
from the uh Lebanese side of the Israel
Lebanon
border